# iShopiSell-backend
This is the backend to iShopiSell, a website for users to buy and sell products from other users. The backend of the website utilizes Ruby on Rails as API to manage the database and models. The models that are used on the backend are users and products. The users has many products and the products belong to the user. There is seed data provided in the repo to help you get started and test out the code. 

Before being able to test out the code, you will need to run bundle install, make sure gem 'rack-cors' is in the gemfile. You will need it later. Once you've ran bundle install, review the migration files to understand the schema and what attributes each model has. The user has a name, password, and account balance while the products have a name, price, and quantity. If the schema makes sense to you, you can go ahead and run rake db:migrate to run the migration (rake db:migrate) and create the database. You can also run "rake db:seed" to get the seed data loaded and test it out with "rails console" in the command line or you create your users and products in the command line. The user model validates that a user has a name and password, with all users starting out with $200 in their account - the web app does not manage real money but plays with the concept. The first user in the seed data is the market. The market makes $1 profit per unit sold of any product while also not having any products of its own. The product model validates that products have a name, price, and quantity before being persisted to the database. 

Once you have a clear understanding of the models, you can review the controllers for each model to make sure you understand how the rails as an API is working. The controllers have actions that are needed for the frontend of the website to interact with the backend of the website, which is why you need to make sure that rack-cors is in gem file and downloaded. Please check the config/initializers/cors.rb is present and allows all (*) or whichever URL you use to handle Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) needed in order to accept cross-origin AJAX requests from the frontend. Rails as an API renders JSON from backend that can access and modified on frontend of the website. The params for each controller only permits the data that is explicitly in the private params method for each controller. The products model also has two methods, instance_to_json and self.array_to_json, inside it to better shape how the data from the JSON would return to the frontend without excess information. 

If the aforementioned information makes sense to you and is properly working on your computer, you can move to frontend of the website to gain full understanding of how iShopiSell works when the frontend and backend are interacting with each. Here's the link to the frontend repo: https://github.com/TriggaT/iShopiSell